#### Garry Tan is a founder of [Posterous](http://posterous), a really awesome blogging service that is quick to setup and easy to use.

#### How did you get started in programming?
I started teaching myself HTML and web stuff early on, when I was probably 12 or 13. Some friends and I had an underground school newspaper going. We were writing about heavy stuff -- politics, death penalty, abortion, etc. We put it online and people didn't know we were kids. We started having long back-and-forth arguments about these weighty issues with people who thought we were adults. That was such a huge kick. To exchange ideas in a pure form for free with anyone online -- liberating. Then I taught myself <a href="http://www.perl.org/">Perl</a> and started doing early <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Common_Gateway_Interface">CGI programming</a> for a consulting firm in San Francisco -- Adjacency New Media. They did the first Apple Online Store and ecommerce stores for Specialized Mountain Bikes and Esprit and tons of other huge brands. It was the late 90s, and I was a junior/senior in high school. They ended up selling their consultancy for tens of millions to Sapient -- since the company was completely employee owned it made my mentors wealthy.  I was hooked.  If only they gave equity to interns. =)
 
#### What advice would you give to kids interested in programming now?
Here's more advice for kids interested in using programming to change the world. Best advice I ever got was from the CEO and founder of Adjacency, Andrew Sather. He told me to never box myself into a particular thing. At the time I was 90% a codemonkey. I loved Perl and databases and SQL. But he told me to embrace design. Think about users and how aesthetics play into the way they use a product. Think about usability. Learn to run a project, and work with others. Don't be just one thing -- do a few things well and be able to do everything, and you'll be able to create great things. Ultimately it's about radical self-reliance. Nobody wants to join something that will fail without them -- but everyone wants to latch on to the next rocket ship. So the more you can do, the more likely you'll launch that rocket ship.
 
#### There are some hackers that can write awesome code, but lack in the design and hustling department. Hackers are notorious for being autodidact's. Are there any tips or recommendations that you have for these hackers or do they really need to find team members that have these skills?
I think design can be self-taught. It takes time and effort and desire. The best part about not blocking yourself into JUST being the hacker or JUST the business person or JUST the designer is that you free yourself to really learn all parts of making a valuable website. And it is multiplicative -- if you can do it or at least speak the language, then you'll a) be able to evaluate people in that discipline (this is more important than most people think) and b) speak their language so you can work even better with them.
 
#### What advice would you give to someone thinking about joining/founding a startup?
Find people you really trust and really know, if you're founding. If you're thinking of joining, then do your homework. Find out who they've worked with in the past and get honest reactions. Life is too short to work with untrustworthy people. Think of founding a startup (or joining one, to a lesser extent) as similar to getting into a life raft going into the middle of the ocean. It's just gonna be you and the people in that raft. And you'll be paddling for land, any land at all. You really get to know people through how they act in conflict and when things get rough. So don't just join any old team -- it's your time and your human capital, so invest it wisely and do your diligence.
 
#### What is the Posterous development cycle like?
At Posterous we try to find people who are as multidisciplinary as possible, because that means they'll be able to push features end-to-end. Each project gets worked on in independent branches in git and we push code as soon as it is ready. We might fully refresh the site a dozen times a day on any given day. One thing we're starting to put into place is the idea that each feature has a design lead and an engineering on it. Some features are driven by design with an engineering consult (e.g. more frontend features), and vice versa (more infrastructure/scaling), and sometimes its an equal amount on both sides. It depends on the project, but we want to avoid silo-ing and throwing products over the wall from 'design' to 'engineering' to 'qa' and so on. We don't work on our own little piece of it -- we all work on it together.
 
#### What about startup life do you like most?
It's exhilarating to just code til dawn and ship new features that users love. And to not have to jump through hoops to get to there. I think as an engineering organization our biggest challenge is to keep the quality up while staying agile on being able to ship new code every day, without roadblocks and speed bumps. At the end of the day, I think that's the difference between a consumer web startup that succeeds or crashes and burns.
 
#### Who's your favorite all time hip-hop artist?
Awesome question. I have to admit right now I think Kanye West is my favorite hip hop artist of all time. He's got a swagger but it's cerebral. He's a true artist par excellence a la Warhol or Dali. I think he understands culture and media in a way that most of society is only catching up to.
 
#### What is your favorite book?
That's a tough one. I'm a big fan of Kurt Vonnegut. He's able to capture both the glory, irony, and sadness of both the mundane and the historic. I think Cat's Cradle is probably the pinacle of his work. On the nonfiction side, I've been reading the Tibetan Book of the Dead, translated by Robert Thurman.
