#### <a href="http://substack.net/">James Halliday</a> is a co-founder at <a href="http://stackvm.com/">StackVM</a> with <a href="http://catonmat.net/">Peteris Krumins</a>. StackVM makes virtual machines easier. He also drew the awesome <a href="/images/lambdaphant.svg">Lambdaphant logo</a>. Related <a href="/words/interview-with-peteris-krumins">interview with Peteris</a>.

#### How did you get started hacking? What was your first programming language?
In elementary school I remember playing Oregon Trail, Number Munchers, and Turtle Graphics on giant floppy disks and <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Apple_II_series">Apple ][s</a>. Then when I was 7 years old around 1994 or so I used the internet for the first time at the <a href="http://www.omsi.edu/">Oregon Museum of Science and Industry</a>. I was determined from then on to figure out how I could make computers do my bidding. I started by learning HTML out of an old HTML 3 book and clicking view source on web pages. When I was 12 I started writing javascript and then picked up perl, PHP, C++, Java, Visual Basic, x86 assembler, and python before I finished high school.

#### What is your favorite language to hack in?
I've come full-circle and mostly hack javascript these days, especially in node.js. Haskell is pretty fun too. I've written lots of OpenGL simulations in Haskell and even the control software for an underwater ROV.

#### Can you give us some detail about what you and Peteris are doing with <a href="http://stackvm.com">StackVM</a>?
We're spinning off the core technology into a bunch of hosted services and seeing which ones stick. We've gotten the most feedback from people wanting to use our software for cross-browser testing so that's the first thing we're building. Setting up VMWare or VirtualBox and installing Windows just to make sure you website still works in Internet Explorer is a huge pain point for a lot of folks.

#### How did you come up with the idea for StackVM?
At university I had to use VMWare for some classes. I couldn't get the desktop client or the browser plugin to work on my Linux laptop and I remember thinking how great it would be to have a javascript graphical web console as a frontend for virtual machines. In another class a professor had built an entire online homework submission and validation system called NetRun on top of Qemu and some ancient servers running obscure processors and operating systems. This system got me thinking about how much more cool tech people would be building if only virtual machines weren't so difficult to retrofit for other purposes.

#### What exactly is Browserling and what are you using it for?
Browserling is a freemium service for doing interactive cross-browser testing. We run browsers from Internet Explorer to Safari on our servers and then let users use the browsers remotely through our StackVM-powered web console. Browserling isn't another lame browser screenshot service; you can click around with the mouse and type with the keyboard and everything.

#### What tips do you have for bootstrapping a startup?
Build a prototype before you start looking for technical cofounders to demonstrate that the concept is sound, even if it really sucks. It's far easier to convince somebody to hack on a project with you if you've already done some of the legwork getting the ball rolling. Once you've started to work on your startup, attack the easy pieces first. It's very easy to sink a week or two into an ambitious refactoring sweep and get completely stuck. Don't be afraid to abandon code when this happens; it's far more important that you keep your hacktivity up than having to re-implement some components after a rebase. To keep the code manageable, I like to practice what I call "library-driven development" where I break out the modular pieces of the codebase and release them to github and the package system of whatever language I'm using. When a module is completely separated like this you can't cheat and expose project-specific internal states, so it keeps the design clean and easier to test. Stealth mode seems very rarely appropriate. Instead, get as much feedback as you can as early as possible. Strangers will challenge you and offer useful perspectives. Nobody is going to steal your idea; you weren't even the first person to think of it. Ideas are worthless. Execution matters.

#### How are you planning on gaining traction for StackVM?
We have some virality built into our spin-off projects like Browserling. One trick we're going to be trying is gradual rewards on top of freemium for signing up and sharing the service with friends. So for instance, a user could get 30 minutes of uninterrupted session time for just signing up or sharing a link on twitter or facebook. <a href="http://www.dropbox.com/">Dropbox</a> did this to great effect. We're also going to leverage the 2500+ emails we've collected from the StackVM landing page to help us test out new features and to drive customer acquisition. Peteris and I have been collecting emails at technical meetups too. We've gotten some great leads on potential early Browserling adopters in social gaming QA departments and mobile app development.

#### Have you read any good books lately?
I genuinely prefer reading long pieces of text on a computer screen. With digitized DRM-free books, I can grep the raw text, pipe the data to a speech synthesizer, or use the text to seed a markov bot. I am quite excited about the recent trend towards heavily-illustrated technical guides like <a href="http://learnyouahaskell.com/">Learn You A Haskell For Great Good</a>, <a href="http://mislav.uniqpath.com/poignant-guide/">Why's (Poignant) Guide</a>, and <a href="http://landoflisp.com/">Land of Lisp</a>. The last long-form piece of fiction I read was Ender's Game last year and Little Brother the year before that, both of which I liked quite a bit. Mostly through I read short blog posts and essays online: not just programming stuff but also old essays by Bertrand Russel or Mark Twain. Perhaps if I allow myself to have some free time after launching Browserling I'll thumb through the copy of <a href="http://machineofdeath.net/">Machine of Death</a> that's sitting on my hard disk.
